
# Project Start - December 04, 2022

## R2DBC and Spring Native on the User API

I have been very impressed with using R2DBC on the user service
with SpringBoot and the Boot's related data project to integrate with the PostgreSQL DB. Indeed, this was confirmed by a
colleague that used the User API as a template for a simple micro-service at work. In his case, the project was even
simpler due to the lack of needing more advanced mappings between multiple tables.

I was also surprised a bit by the ProjectReactor pieces (Mono/Flux). In previous work I have used them a bit to leverage
WebClient but never to expose a REST service. In doing this a lot of the benefit became more apparent. This
presents in a number of ways including the reasonable defaults applied for backpressure (along with an easy interface to tweak
them), a huge increase in memory efficiency...

It does present interesting problems with respect pagination but a workable solution was provided. In the case of pagination,
loading all the elements requested into memory at a once negates the memory benefits of using a Flux and also the backpressure
mechanisms. If the page size is limited to a small value this might be minimized but it is still annoying. As an alternative,
the total elements are queried and added to the response as a header. Then the elements are streamed out, using Flux. From this
point, the client can determine the an needed values based on page requested, page size requested, total elements in the 
response header.


## Svelte, oh my!

Coming from an Angular perspective, Svelte has been an odd experience. In part it has made me appreciate Angular. On the 
other hand, it has made me appreciate that an over reliance on Angular is a bad thing. By this I mean that many things that
Angular provide 
